README.md, before:

---
module: react

level: 2

methods:
  - team
  - pair
  - solo

tags:
  - wip
---

# Development Log

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png" /></a>

> This is part of Academy's [technical curriculum for **The Mark**](https://github.com/WeAreAcademy/curriculum-mark). All parts of that curriculum, including this project, are licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License</a>.

We've been working with [our very first React app](https://github.com/WeAreAcademy/mark-react-proj--meet-react), where we modified an existing component and defined our own!

Now, we're going to see how we can start working with multiple components and begin to assemble a component tree.

## Learning Outcomes

- Render a React component from within another
- Draw out the component tree

## Exercise 1: Installing and demoing

**Success criterion:** you can view the React web app on `localhost:3000`

Firstly, clone this repository to your local machine in some sensible place, for example:

```bash
cd ~/Development/Academy # or wherever you're organising everything
git clone https://github.com/WeAreAcademy/mark-react-proj--component-tree.git
```

Then, change into the new directory and install the files:

```bash
cd mark-react-proj--component-tree
yarn
```

Finally, run your new React app!

```bash
yarn start
```

The `start` script is configured such that the app will run by default on your local machine at `localhost:3000`, which should open up in your browser automatically (but which you can also navigate to).

## Exercise 2: Reading, understanding and documenting

**Success criterion:** a document which outlines how you think this React app works. You don't have to achieve a theory which explains 100%, but you should strive to explain as much as possible.

(N.B.: The _correctness_ of your theory is **much less important** than the _process_ of forming this document. [Forming a prediction, and then discovering it was wrong, is an effective way to learn](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959475217303468)!)

1. Take some time to read and digest the code
2. Google things that you don't understand
3. Experiment with changing things
4. Produce a narrative document

> ⚠️ For now, you will have to refresh `localhost:3000` when you make changes to see them take effect. _(Instructor note: CRA hot reload / fast refresh seems not to be able to watch code inside `index.tsx`.)_

A good narrative document for this game would explain how `public/index.html` and `src/index.tsx` seem to be interacting to produce the HTML that gets rendered in your browser. A great narrative document would demonstrate this through code snippets and screenshots which show how changes you have made in the code lead to changes in the browser that are consistent with your theory.

> ⛏️ You may find it useful to use the **Inspector** in your browser developer tools to explore the rendered HTML elements. (Search online for how to do this if you are unsure.)

Things you should try to cover include:

- What's the importance of the `document.getElementById` argument? What happens if you change it?
- When you run the app, why do you see more things than are returned by your React app?
- What's the role of the `{` in TSX code?

## Exercise 3: Writing your own React component

> 🎯 **Success criterion:** a custom React component, `AboutMe`, which renders HTML to the browser at `localhost:3000`.

Now it's time to look at `AboutMe`. This is a currently relatively minimal React component.

Can you populate it with some information about yourself (a short bio, maybe a CV-esque thing) and render the component through your React app?

(It's up to you as to whether you replace other bits of HTML or the other component, `MyFirstReactComponent`; all that's required is that you can see your component's rendered HTML. Don't forget that you'll need to refresh when you make changes!)

## Exercise 6: Commentary and reflection

**Success criterion:** documented reflections.

Commit message:

Add thinking in components task

README.md, after:

---
module: react

level: 2

methods:
  - team
  - pair
  - solo

tags:
  - wip
---

#Component Tree

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png" /></a>

> This is part of Academy's [technical curriculum for **The Mark**](https://github.com/WeAreAcademy/curriculum-mark). All parts of that curriculum, including this project, are licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License</a>.

We've been working with [our very first React app](https://github.com/WeAreAcademy/mark-react-proj--meet-react), where we modified an existing component and defined our own!

Now, we're going to see how we can start working with multiple components and begin to assemble a component tree.

## Learning Outcomes

- Render a React component from within another
- Draw out the component tree

## Exercise 1: Installing and demoing

**Success criterion:** you can view the React web app on `localhost:3000`

Firstly, clone this repository to your local machine in some sensible place, for example:

```bash
cd ~/Development/Academy # or wherever you're organising everything
git clone https://github.com/WeAreAcademy/mark-react-proj--component-tree.git
```

Then, change into the new directory and install the files:

```bash
cd mark-react-proj--component-tree
yarn
```

Finally, run your new React app!

```bash
yarn start
```

The `start` script is configured such that the app will run by default on your local machine at `localhost:3000`, which should open up in your browser automatically (but which you can also navigate to).

## Exercise 2: Reading, understanding and documenting

**Success criterion:** a document which outlines how you think this React app works. You don't have to achieve a theory which explains 100%, but you should strive to explain as much as possible.

(N.B.: The _correctness_ of your theory is **much less important** than the _process_ of forming this document. [Forming a prediction, and then discovering it was wrong, is an effective way to learn](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959475217303468)!)

1. Take some time to read and digest the code
2. Google things that you don't understand
3. Experiment with changing things
4. Produce a narrative document

> ⚠️ For now, you will have to refresh `localhost:3000` when you make changes to see them take effect. _(Instructor note: CRA hot reload / fast refresh seems not to be able to watch code inside `index.tsx`.)_

A good narrative document will include some indication of hierarchy between components - how they fit together, in a so-called 'component tree' (like [this simple example](https://www.elegantthemes.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/image3.png)).

## Exercise 3: Thinking in components

**Success criterion:** a component tree diagram for an app or website of your choice.

Read these two articles:

1. [https://blog.bitsrc.io/atomic-design-and-ui-components-theory-to-practice-f200db337c24](Atomic Design and UI Components: Theory to Practice)
2. [https://atomicdesign.bradfrost.com/chapter-2/](Atomic Design Methodology)

Then pick an app or website that you like, and see if you can reverse-engineer a component tree diagram from it.

## Exercise 4: Check your understanding

> 🎯 **Success criterion:** a conversation with a Faculty member and amended comments.

Talk to a member of Faculty about your understanding of the game and of TypeScript.

Amend your notes for any important points that come out of the conversation.

## Exercise 5: Commentary and reflection

**Success criterion:** documented reflections.
